# CSS/Layout Frameworks

- **Issue**: Should we use a CSS framework for developing the base theme?

- **Decision**: Bootstrap 5

- **Status**: approved

- **Background**: CSS frameworks make development times shorter and styles more consistent. They are flexible and often allow developers to override styles and create their own themes.

- **Assumptions**: Bootstrap is open source, so it will have no added cost for the team to use. It is also a very popular project, so we expect it to be actively maintained long term.

- **Constraints**: We will have to work within the Bootstrap framework when using classes and creating layouts. Also, if we develop our own Bootstrap theme, we will have to use `SCSS` to extend the styles.

- **Positions**: We considered other frameworks like Bulma, Tailwind, and Pure CSS. Tailwind requires the use of `npm` which adds un-needed complexity. Bulma and Pure CSS are not as popular as Bootstrap, but are similar in features. Bootstrap 4 will no longer recive any new features and will be replaced by version 5.

- **Argument**: Bootstrap is a very popular CSS framework with a large community for support and development. Bootstrap 5 is smaller in size than 4 and has better performance. It also doesn't have jQuery as a dependency and is easily extendable.

- **Implications**: Bootstrap 5 does not support IE.

- **Related decisions**: We will need to use a CSS preprocessor if we decide to create our own Bootstrap theme. If so, we will need to create a workflow for development and compiling the `scss` into `css`.

- **Related requirements**: n/a

- **Related artifacts**: n/a

- **Related principles**: n/a

- **Notes**: n/a