# Front End Linting Tools

- **Issue**: We will be developing one or more new themes and will want to have a linter to keep our code readable.

- **Decision**: We will lint our JavaScript files with `eslint` and CSS files with `stylelint`. Additionally we will be using Github Actions to automate our linting on every pull request.

- **Status**: approved

- **Background**: Linting is an important part of writing code to ensure that it stays clean, readable, and maintainable. Also, when multiple people are contributing to a project, standardizing code will make it easier to be understood by others.

- **Assumptions**: We are using open source technology so there will be no cost to us to use these tools. Github Actions integrates seamlessly with our repositories, so setting up an automated linting process will be simple.

- **Constraints**: Using these linters require `npm`, which constrains us to the JavaScript language for extending the linters. We will also be required to use `npm` as another package manager in addition to `composer`.

- **Positions**:  Other linters we considered for CSS were `csslint` and `csscomb`. Other considered JavaScript linters were `jslint` and `jshint`.

- **Argument**: `eslint` is the most feature rich when it comes to javascript linters because it has plugins and ways to define custom rules. We can also lint other JS file types such as `.jsx` and `.vue`. Additionally, it is highly customizable and is actively maintained. It's also a very popular linter for modern javaScript code.  

  `stylelint` has been the most popular css linter according to npm downloads within recent times and is also highly customizable. Its configuration is very similar to eslint's, making the two easy to configure. It also can lint other css like syntaxes like `scss`. It's still actively maintained and appears to be the first choice in css linters for front end projects. 

- **Implications**: The decision to use these linters should have no impact on the rest of the Drupal code or larger web project. Since these linters are just for development, `npm` will not be required for production.

- **Related decisions**: For custom modules that implement their own CSS and JS, we will have to add a workflow to ensure those files get linted.

- **Related requirements**: n/a

- **Related artifacts**: n/a

- **Related principles**: n/a

- **Notes**: n/a
