# JavaScript

- **Issue**: Should the new base theme use a JavaScript framework for rendering markup?

- **Decision**: Vanilla JS (ES6)

- **Status**: approved

- **Background**: JS frameworks, such as React or Vue, are very popular for web development. They can be used to create highly complex UI layouts and interactions. 
They are also useful for improving site performance and decoupling the front and back end architecture.

- **Assumptions**: We will need JS for some things, but we don't expect it to be highly complex. We also assume that most of the site content is read-only with little
two way interaction.

- **Constraints**: It may take a little bit more code to acheive the same behavior as using a framework. Additonally we will not have access to `npm`.

- **Positions**: We considered using `Vue` as a front end framework for rendering out content.

- **Argument**: Modern JS development using frameworks require build steps and asset bundlers, adding another workflow requirement.
We would also want to implement SSR for rendering the markup, which is quite complex for a `php` environment.
Last, JS frameworks are good for two way data flow and complex user interactions. Our sites primarily do not require user input, making `Vue` unnecessary.

- **Implications**: Using Vanilla JS will have little to no implications since all frameworks are just subsets of the JavaScript language.

- **Related decisions**: We aren't ruling out JS frameworks, but we don't believe that it's necessary to include one in the base theme.

- **Related requirements**: n/a

- **Related artifacts**: n/a

- **Related principles**: n/a

- **Notes**: n/a
